README.md, before:

![Honey Badger Don't Care](icon.png)

INTRODUCTION
============

***[Hardened Baseline Database Component](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Crazy_Nastyass_Honey_Badger#Honey_Badger_Don't_Care)***

This is the baseline database system for the secure database toolbox.
It's a low-level database storage system that implements a generic KVP database and a separate security database.

LICENSE
=======

![Little Green Viper Software Development LLC](spec/viper.png)
© Copyright 2018, [Little Green Viper Software Development LLC](https://littlegreenviper.com).
This code is ENTIRELY proprietary and not to be reused, unless under specific, written license from [Little Green Viper Software Development LLC](https://littlegreenviper.com).

DESCRIPTION
===========

PDO
---

At the lowest level, the system uses [PHP PDO](https://php.net/pdo) to access the data base through [PDO Prepared Statements](https://secure.php.net/manual/en/pdo.prepared-statements.php).
This enhances security by ensuring that all database access is "scrubbed" by PDO, so the risk of [SQL injection attacks](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_injection.asp) is greatly reduced.
PDO also helps the system to be "database agnostic," as PDO has support for multiple SQL-based databases.

TWO INDEPENDENT DATABASES
-------------------------

The most important security structure is that there are two separate databases (not just different tables on a single database), with one containing data, and the other containing logins and security tokens.
Each database is managed by its own PDO instance, so they don't need to be on the same server, or even be the same technology.

SECURITY TOKENS
---------------

Access to read and write data entities is determined by "security tokens." Security tokens are simple integers, each representing an ID in the security database. Database table rows are assigned a read token and a write token.
Logins in the security database are assigned a series of integer tokens in a CSV list, in addition to their own ID. If the login item has the token for reading or writing assigned to a particular row, then that login has permission to read (and maybe write) that row.
Badger is designed to mask rows that don't meet the login security token list at the database query level, so they never even make it into the system.
Tokens are checked after reloading the logged in user, so it is not possible for a logged-in user to escalate their permissions.
The security database has two kinds of rows: logins and security token IDs. Each login is also a security token ID, but has a hashed password and login ID associated.

THERE IS NO GOD BUT GOD
-----------------------

Only one of the logins can be a "God" login; a login that has full permissions to everything. There are no "security levels." All security is done through tokens. The "God" ID is set as an integer ID in the config file, and the password is also stored in the config file.

KEEPING IT SIMPLE
-----------------

The database schema is incredibly simple. There are no relations at the database level, although the "owner" field of the "data" database could be used as such.
Each database has but one single row, and the data format (the columns) are the same for all rows of that database. Differentiation is done through the "access_class" column, which contains the name of a PHP class that can handle that row. There is also an "access_class_context" column, which contains serialized data, storing a persistent state for the class instance.
Both the "data" database and the "security" database tables have the same basic root structure, and are handled by a common abstract base class.
Hierarchy and organization are meant to be applied outside the database, using classes and instances. The database is really just supposed to be a "locked cabinet."

LONGITUDE AND LATITUDE
----------------------

The one built-in specialization is the inclusion of "longitude" and "latitude" columns in the "data" database table. This is because it is possible to do highly efficient, fast [Haversine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haversine_formula) lookups in SQL. We have built these into the system.
Once a Haversine search has been made, the resulting data set is then subjected to the more accurate [Vincenty's Formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vincenty%27s_formulae) in order to "fine tune" the result.
The result of this, is that Badger is an ideal vehicle to keep a database of locations for fast retrieval, based on longitude and latitude, and a radius.

TAGS
----

Each "data" database row has ten "tags." These are 255-character "VARCHAR" fields that can be used for many things. They are indexed for fast search (thus, are limited in length).

PAYLOAD
-------

The "data" database schema also specifies a 4096-character "BLOB" column, called "payload". This is used to store larger data with a data item. It is not indexed, and can store binary data.

Commit message:

More README work, and I added a new directory outside the repo for extension.

README.md, after:

![Honey Badger Don't Care](icon.png)

INTRODUCTION
============

***[Hardened Baseline Database Component](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Crazy_Nastyass_Honey_Badger#Honey_Badger_Don't_Care)***

This is the baseline database system for the secure database toolbox.
It's a low-level database storage system that implements a generic KVP database and a separate security database.

LICENSE
=======

![Little Green Viper Software Development LLC](spec/viper.png)
© Copyright 2018, [Little Green Viper Software Development LLC](https://littlegreenviper.com).
This code is ENTIRELY proprietary and not to be reused, unless under specific, written license from [Little Green Viper Software Development LLC](https://littlegreenviper.com).

DESCRIPTION
===========

PDO
---

At the lowest level, the system uses [PHP PDO](https://php.net/pdo) to access the data base through [PDO Prepared Statements](https://secure.php.net/manual/en/pdo.prepared-statements.php).
This enhances security by ensuring that all database access is "scrubbed" by PDO, so the risk of [SQL injection attacks](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_injection.asp) is greatly reduced.
PDO also helps the system to be "database agnostic," as PDO has support for multiple SQL-based databases.

TWO INDEPENDENT DATABASES
-------------------------

The most important security structure is that there are two separate databases (not just different tables on a single database), with one containing data, and the other containing logins and security tokens.
Each database is managed by its own PDO instance, so they don't need to be on the same server, or even be the same technology.

SECURITY TOKENS
---------------

Access to read and write data entities is determined by "security tokens." Security tokens are simple integers, each representing an ID in the security database. Database table rows are assigned a read token and a write token.
Logins in the security database are assigned a series of integer tokens in a CSV list, in addition to their own ID. If the login item has the token for reading or writing assigned to a particular row, then that login has permission to read (and maybe write) that row.
Badger is designed to mask rows that don't meet the login security token list at the database query level, so they never even make it into the system.
Tokens are checked after reloading the logged in user, so it is not possible for a logged-in user to escalate their permissions.
The security database has two kinds of rows: logins and security token IDs. Each login is also a security token ID, but has a hashed password and login ID associated.

THERE IS NO GOD BUT GOD
-----------------------

Only one of the logins can be a "God" login; a login that has full permissions to everything. There are no "security levels." All security is done through tokens. The "God" ID is set as an integer ID in the config file, and the password is also stored (as cleartext) in the config file.

CONFIG FILE
-----------

The config file can (and should) be kept out of the HTTP path, making it harder for outside entities to access.
The config file consists of a static class, with "hardcoded" constants. The class exists mainly as a namespace.

KEEPING IT SIMPLE
-----------------

The database schema is incredibly simple. There are no relations at the database level, although the "owner" field of the "data" database could be used as such.
Each database has but one single row, and the data format (the columns) are the same for all rows of that database. Differentiation is done through the "access_class" column, which contains the name of a PHP class that can handle that row. There is also an "access_class_context" column, which contains serialized data, storing a persistent state for the class instance.
Both the "data" database and the "security" database tables have the same basic root structure, and are handled by a common abstract base class.
Hierarchy and organization are meant to be applied outside the database, using classes and instances. The database is really just supposed to be a "locked cabinet."

LONGITUDE AND LATITUDE
----------------------

The one built-in specialization is the inclusion of "longitude" and "latitude" columns in the "data" database table. This is because it is possible to do highly efficient, fast [Haversine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haversine_formula) lookups in SQL. We have built these into the system.
Once a Haversine search has been made, the resulting data set is then subjected to the more accurate [Vincenty's Formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vincenty%27s_formulae) in order to "fine tune" the result.
The result of this, is that Badger is an ideal vehicle to keep a database of locations for fast retrieval, based on longitude and latitude, and a radius.

TAGS
----

Each "data" database row has ten "tags." These are 255-character "VARCHAR" fields that can be used for many things. They are indexed for fast search (thus, are limited in length).

PAYLOAD
-------

The "data" database schema also specifies a 4096-character "BLOB" column, called "payload". This is used to store larger data with a data item. It is not indexed, and can store binary data.

EXTENDING AND SPECIALIZING BADGER
---------------------------------

Badger is a baseline system. It provides a generic interface to a simple database, and is not designed to be used "as is." It should be extended via subclasses of the row classes and the access class.

In order to extend the row classes, you should create a directory at the same level as the badger main directory, and call it "badger_extension_classes". Put your classes that extend the class in "db/a_co_db_table_base.class.php" there (actually, you should be extending subclasses of this base class).

The files containing classes should be named after the class, all lower case, with '.class.php' appended.

It's probably not a bad idea to add any access class extension there, as well.
